---
ID: 1
post_title: Let me code, let me create !
author: turhan
post_date: 2014-04-28 18:12:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: http://turhanoz.com/hello-world/
published: true
dsq_thread_id:
  - "2653448365"
---
<span style="color: #000000;">I am a mobile developer. Developping software is an art through which you express your creativity.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">But before creating anything, an unecessary amount of time is often wasted to setup, to administrate and to manage environment (development, integration, production &amp; so...). </span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">Let me describe you the big picture:</span></strong><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">Once uppon a time, when a was young and uncarefull about neither time passing nor producing value, I would have done a thousand things before even coding a single line of code to fulfill my idea.</span>
<ol>
	<li> I would have started by installing a Linux distribution (ubuntu to name one) onto an old dusty desktop machine laying into a locker.</li>
	<li>I would then have installed all necessary software to develop into the targeted plateform (android, maven &amp; so.)</li>
	<li>I would then have installed a Source Version Control software, such as GIT, to access and store my <em>'precious'</em> code. This would also have implied configuring ssh server and managing allowed/denied account to commit.</li>
	<li>Then, I would (or wouldn't) have installed and configured a continous integration system, such as jenkins.</li>
	<li>To access my code from everywhere, I would have of course setup all the required network routing (configuring iptables, configuring some virtual hosts to route subdomain names, one for svc, the other for jenkins). To do so, I would necessarely have configured some domain name pointing to my self hosted desktop computer.</li>
	<li>Exposing my desktop server to the world, I would have configured some banning policy to block brut force attacks (fail2ban is your friend)</li>
	<li>And more !</li>
</ol>
<span style="color: #000000;">This is all fun and full of learning, but let's remind my primary goal: Expressing my creativity through coding.</span>
<ul>
	<li>Have I done something close to that goal ? Not at all.</li>
	<li>Am I a sysadmin ? Certainly not.</li>
	<li>Am I looking as a sysadmin so far ? Kind of...</li>
	<li>Am I wasting my time doing so ? Regarding my primary goal, definitely.</li>
</ul>
<br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">Most of the time, your enthutiasm stops there in a subtile manner. Indeed, you are so proud and exshauted of having setup all the environment that you convince yourself that, from now one, you can start developping anytime (converting your idea into something concrete). So you take some rest and know that you could start coding in a few days, anytime. Your primary idea slowly evaporates. You have done nothing, except wasting your time.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">You don't want your idea flying away, do you ?</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">Experiment brings you wisdom.</span></strong><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">#1 Code is not the value, Execution is</span></strong><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">You slowly understand that your code is not the value as you naively think, but you realize that the value is in fact in the Execution of your idea.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">Trying to secure your code into your own CVS system hosted into your own server is so unecessary at this stage.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">I would recommand you to host your code into hubs (github, gitlab, bitbucket), costing you few dollars per month and bringing you the required level of security.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">I would personaly use <strong>github</strong> for my open source projects an <strong>gitlab</strong> for my non foss projects.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><em><span style="color: #000000;">Cost : 0$ (gitlab) to few dollars</span></em><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">#2 Continious Integration into the Cloud</span></strong><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">Continous integration is, for me, a <em>"can't go without it"</em> thing (regarding the project). Instead of going through the installation described above, I would definitely recommand you to go with online PaaS, such as Cloudbees. It fills all my requirements (Android support, Maven).</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><em><span style="color: #000000;">Cost : 0$ (free plan)</span></em><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">#3 Organize your development</span></strong><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">You can not develop all your features at once, nor starting one before finishing the other. It is better to complete small batch of features sequentially, in an agile manner (definition of ready, definition of done). This helps you avoid dispersing and will benefit you. Then, again, there are online tools that will definitely help you being </span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">effective (kanbanflow.com for free, http://kanbanize.com for free, Jira Agile 20$/month). I would choose Atlassian for my needs.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">As you can see, you can easily start developping, in a peace of mind manner and effective way, for 0$ per month (or few dollars). Your only concern is creating value serenely.</span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">  </span><br style="color: #000000;" /><span style="color: #000000;">Don't forget : </span><br style="color: #000000;" /><strong><span style="color: #000000;">The value is not the code, the value is the execution.</span></strong>